Summary
=======

Having a clear image in your mind for what you want out of life is
important; otherwise, we'd never actually get what we want, because we
don't know what we're chasing. It's also very easy to get distracted
from the image you've envisioned, because there's nothing concrete
holding you accountable for the steps you take to get to that end result
- as a result, we find ourselves sidetracked with meaningless nonsense
when we actually really wanted to spend our years doing something
productive.

This document aims to help me figure out exactly what I want to be,
where I want to be, and how I'm going to get there. There are many
things to consider - physical possessions (i.e., finances, vehicle,
etc.), character traits, relationships, and even personal motivations.
It's hard to change your behavior and character, but where there's a
will, there's a way, and I don't want to see myself missing out on more
opportunities in my life - not opportunities to party and have a good
time, but to let it go to waste.

GySgt Joiner advised us to take the opportunity to direct ourselves, and
that's some of the wisest advice I think I've heard. He is a very
realistic and intelligent man; I hope to have soaked up some of his
appreciation for the opportunities we have now.

"What type of Marine do you want to be?\"
-----------------------------------------

Those words never rang more true. He asked some very important questions
that I was lucky enough to listen to his *previous* advise, in writing
down. The following were mentioned, and in this paper I'd like to add
more structure and rigor to their values:

-   List your goals for your USMC tenure

-   What type of Marine do you want to be?

-   Control your impression

-   SMART goals - short term and long term

-   Define your path to better yourself

-   What kind of Corps do you want to serve?

-   What do you want to accomplish?

-   Put down the dream-killers - what are they?

-   A marathon is a product of individual steps

-   Be as productive as possible - get immersed in your job *first*

-   If you waste your potential, you let **yourself** down

-   What have you already done to get to your goals?

-   What will you sacrifice? And what is practical?

-   How can you work with others to help you get to your goals?

-   How will you manage your time requirements?

-   What are good starter goals, to get familiar with the process?

-   How will you pace yourself and not sacrifice the wrong things?

-   Earn your reputation

-   Pay your dues

-   What books could you read to improve this process?

-   What books should you read regardless?

-   You either have "it\", or you don't. Set the expectation that others
    should strive to have

-   What long term goals have value that's difficult to measure?

-   How will you revise your goals regularly?

-   Your decisions **are** your dues

-   Accomplish what you're told

-   Ask for permission and sympathy when appropriate

-   You do not need your hand held

-   Take an English 1 & 2 course (eventually)

-   Planning is *key*

The values of the above statements will be exercised below. If
uninterested, please skip to the next chapter.

### List your goals for your USMC tenure

This is very important. Most people think of being a Marine as just a
"job\" - often, I reflect on how my NCOs would remark as "Being a
Marine is the easiest job you'll ever have! All you have to do is show
up on time, shave your face, get a haircut, and do as your told!\",
while grilling us on some negligence or another.

At any rate, being a Marine is more than just a job; it's a *tenure* ---
if you don't do something stupid, or get hurt, then it's a job that
lasts *at least* four years. I don't know about you, but that's the
longest job I've ever had. A lot can be done in that amount of time, and
it's important to think about how things will change for you; what
trends are stronger than others. However, if you are influential enough,
you can guide that trend into a different direction. At any rate, there
is a lot that can be accomplished in four years.

### What type of Marine do you want to be?

This is also a tricky question, because there's so many stereotypes we
learn about as junior Marines; the shitbags, the unicorns, "water
walkers\", hardasses, badasses, salty bastards, etc.

When you get caught on a good day, what impression do you want to leave?
What about a bad day? What about an average day? What about during a
firefight? What about at the gym, or during PT? what about when you've
been caught with your pants down?

### Control your Impression

This deals with a separate paper's topic as well, but controlling your
impression is important - staying tight with your chain of command;
knowing what risks they take entrusting you with certain tasks, and
knowing what they care about is very important. Furthermore, being
overly prepared in cause you're put on a promotion board (or, God
forbid, a court) can be very useful - having a jacket of
impressionable material.

### SMART Goals; Short Term and Long Term

Some of this will be taken from [this
website](https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/other/smart-goal/).

Goals are part of every aspect of business/life and provide a sense of
direction, motivation, a clear focus, and clarify importance. By setting
goals for yourself, you are providing yourself with a target to aim for.
A SMART goal is used to help guide goal setting. SMART is an acronym
that stands for Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Timely.
Therefore, a SMART goal incorporates all of these criteria to help focus
your efforts and increase the chances of achieving that goal.

SMART goals are:

-   Specific: Well defined, clear, and unambiguous

-   Measurable: With specific criteria that measure your progress
    towards the accomplishment of the goal

-   Achievable: Attainable and not impossible to achieve

-   Realistic: Within reach, realistic, and relevant to your life
    purpose

-   Timely: With a clearly defined timeline, including a starting date
    and a target date. The purpose is to create urgency.

Having time-indexed, proactive goals will be crucial to rapid
accomplishment.

### Define your path to better yourself

This is an overarching statement about the importance of goal setting
- in my dad's loving words, "you are the master of your disaster\",
and "you're clear for takeoff, it's your life\".

Following other people's footsteps does have it's values, but it's easy
to get misguided or lose sight of your own initiatives. Setting your
rubric for your life plan will help you abide to your own expectations.

### What kind of Corps do you want to serve?

It's a hard question to answer as a junior Marine, but still very
important - what behavior will you enable? What is permissible, and
what isn't? Who do you want to support, and what policies will you rally
behind? Will you be outspoken about your opinions?

### What do you want to accomplish?

At the end of the day, years from now, I'll want to feel proud of
myself. What will I want to be proud of? What will I want other people
to be proud of? What will give me what I need? And what will get me
further to long term goals? What do I want to be known for?

### Put down the dream-killers - what are they?

This is a hard one to address, because it's closely related to
enjoyment. Everyone "needs\" to "relax\" sometimes - take your mind
off work with a dumb distraction. But in reality, maybe there might be a
way to have fun while being productive. Some things might actually help,
though, like a useful distraction, or a change of pace that keeps you
aware and not drained, yet keeps your mind versatile.

### A marathon is a product of individual steps

And each step must be measured - well, maybe not every step, but
knowing where the next one should be is damn important, else you might
trip!

### Be as productive as possible - get immersed in your job *first*

This is a hard one, especially as a new join for my permanent duty
station. However, it's extremely important; I'll need to be more
productive, sharper, and most trustworthy if I want to get promoted.

### If you waste your potential, you let **yourself** down

This breaks my heart, because I know it's true, about my lackadaisical
wastefulness of my past. I have been driven for a long time now,
however, so I shouldn't feel so guilty. But, maybe it's the lasting
effects of being reckless too.

It's very important to stay true to yourself; not necessarily the
"self\" that wants to get drunk and see what girl he *actually* wants,
but the self that regrets decisions, and can give wise advice to a
youngster about both their mistakes and pride.

### What have you already done to get to your goals?

Don't short-sell yourself, you've lived a long life so far. It's
important to know what you've already done, too, so you can better
estimate how productive you can actually be when you really get to work.

### What will you sacrifice? And what is practical?

Sacrifice is the reality of exchanging time and energy, and what we
actually want. I would like to be the kind of person that can rationally
make a decision for sacrificing comfort, without "feeling\" it, so to
speak.

### How can you work with others to help you get to your goals?

I don't mean this by getting others to do your work, but I'm also not
saying you have to do everything alone. Maybe there's another individual
who's goals coincide with yours, and you could symbiotically benefit
from each other. Likewise, how can you get your chain of command
involved with your goals, not intimately, but just aware enough about
something they approve of, so you don't have to make the decision to
sacrifice necessities to accomplish them.

### How will you manage your time requirements?

Schedules are very useful, but sometimes issues (like field ops) come
out of nowhere and put a stick in the spokes of your routine. Being
agile and aware of how to change your footing will be important to
staying productive in a changing environment.

### What are good starter goals, to get familiar with the process?

Low hanging fruit are important to harvest; it can improve morale and
give a better sense of judgment for other goals' which may be more
difficult to attain. However, when starting a new routine, it will be
important to *go slow*.

### How will you pace yourself and not sacrifice the wrong things?

Ask for advice, or if you're not comfortable with that, ease your way
into the change of process that you'll face when going head-on.

### Earn your reputation

You will not work alone, and you are not "safe\" from the same issues
everyone else will face. It's important to make a robust image of
yourself; that you can handle whatever comes your way, because you meet
(and ideally exceed) your expectations.

### Pay your dues

There will be a lot of work ahead of you, and as a new join, you are in
a debt; paying back that debt is your first priority.

### What books could you read to improve this process?

Are there any good self-help books that would give you valuable
perspective? Like "how to make friends and influence people\"?

### What books should you read regardless?

The Commandant's reading list is out there, and we are tasked with
reading 3 per year, and writing reports on them.

### You either have "it\", or you don't. Set the expectation that others should strive to have

Go-getters are what make the world turn. However, it's a constant grind,
and easy to let go. You should make an image for those who need us, that
sets us apart from everyone else.

### What long term goals have value that's difficult to measure?

For instance, after 10 years in the USMC, your GI bill can go to your
dependents. As someone without dependents, that's a very interesting
possibility, because I don't know what I would be missing.

### How will you revise your goals regularly?

Set a weekly, monthly, quarterly schedule for revising your schedule,
and goal iteration.

### Your decisions **are** your dues

A man is as valuable as his word, especially if he involves other people
in making those opportunities available.

### Accomplish what you're told

And maintain communication for what isn't up-to-par. Surprises aren't
very nice for someone who manages expectations.

### Ask for permission and sympathy when appropriate

When growing, you'll need some help getting flexible. Don't be afraid to
be humble, and ask for advice.

### You do not need your hand held

Do everything that *can* be done independently, without overstepping
your boundaries. Preparation and planning are the keys to success.

### Take an English 1 & 2 course (eventually)

This will help you maintain good, impressive communication with
important people.

### Planning is *key*

This is what will set you apart from everyone else, who will waste their
time doing dumb shit. Making a plan, and sticking to that plan, will
help you grow as a person, and as a Marine.


[Next Page](introduction.md)
